# Frontend Development Challenge

This is a frontend development challenge proposed to me with a deadline of 6 days.

I explain more about my choices and the difficulties I faced during the development process. ✌😬

## Running the project

To run this project you will need to clone it and run the following commands:

```sh
npm i
npm run dev
```

In another terminal, to have your own fake API, run this command:

```sh
npx json-server db.json
```

Now you can create your `.env` file following the `.env.example` file with the api url generated by the json-server.
It usually runs at port 3000 so the file will be:

```
VITE_APP_API=http://localhost:3000
```

Toaccess the application running on Vercel [click here](https://frontend-challenge-walter.vercel.app/)

## Technologies

The challenge highlights React, TypeScript, ES6+, React Hooks, and Redux as the libraries that I should use to build the application. I tried to stick to these technologies except for a few additional choices.

For styling, I decided to use pure CSS because I really appreciate the fundamentals of the process. Although tools like TailwindCSS or StyledComponents could have made handling some dynamic properties of styling easier, achieving the same results with pure CSS was truly rewarding.

## Difficulties Faced

An important point here is that the API endpoints provided by the challenge were not accepting requests due to the CORS Policy. To address this, I configured a fake API using json-server and consumed these endpoints this way.

Another challenge I faced was the internationalization of the texts. While it was straightforward to handle currency formatting, translating the static texts proved to be more challenging. I considered using react-intl or react-i18next to "translate" the static texts of the application based on the locale provided by the endpoint for the restaurant data. However, I realized that I might not achieve better results than relying on the browser's automatic translation.

In order to make the application work correctly locally, I needed to deploy a Node project running the same json-server on Vercel.

## Final Considerations

I can confidently say that this challenge allowed me to exercise and demonstrate the most crucial skills of a frontend developer. It was truly rewarding. ✌
